---
layout: post
title: "GMT Thesis: Towards real-time ray tracing through foveated rendering"
date: 2018-03-14
tags: [C++, Graphics, Featured]
images:
 - "assets/images/thesis.jpg"
preview: "assets/images/thesis-thumb.jpg"
download:
read: "/assets/content/Thesis.pdf"
infourl:
keywords: "Foveated rendering, Ray tracing, FOVE, Graphics, C++, CUDA, Direct3D11, User study"
description: "My Game and Media Technology master's thesis on the speedup gained from foveated rendering for ray tracing"
---

My interest in graphics lead to my thesis project being on foveated rendering for ray tracing. Foveated rendering is the idea of rendering according to the accuracy of the human visual system. Since we only see clearly at the center 2-5 degrees of our vision, only the center of the user's view is rendered sharply and the view is rendered at a lower visual fidelity towards the edges.

To be able to account for human gaze direction, I needed gaze tracking hardware. A contact my supervisor had at FOVE helped me acquire one of their prototype models, a gaze-tracking, head-mounted display. I had to implement a system to access and use their API and I needed to rewrite the ray tracing framework's OpenGL basis to a DirectX one to draw the image to the FOVE HMD.

With this gaze-tracking hardware, I was able to write CUDA GPU kernels to quickly perform the foveated rendering. I developed a cubemap implementation of this system for performance purposes to help with the user study I needed to do to check whether my foveated rendering system was noticeable to the user.

I implemented three interpolation algorithms on the GPU in CUDA to recreate the image based on the rays that had been cast into the scene: Nearest Neighbour, the Modified Shepard's Method and the Radial Basis Functions method.