---
layout: post
title: "Spinning Tops Battle Game (Upcoming Multiplayer)"
date: 2015-01-20
tags: game
images:
 - "/assets/images/spinner.png"
 - "/assets/images/spinner2.png"
preview: "assets/images/spinner-thumb.png"
download:
read:
infourl:
keywords: "Unity, C#, particles, 3D modeling, sound design, PC, Game"
description: "With a controller, move with the left stick, charge with the right stick and jump with A or Y.
Player 1: WASD to move, IJKL to charge the dash, space to jump.
Player 2: Arrow keys to move, num pad arrow keys (8, 4, 6, 2) to charge the dash, num pad enter to jump."
---

I was looking for an arcade-style game that you could easily jump into with a friend for a couple of rounds and decided on a battle tops game. You can add up to four players (up to 2 using just one keyboard) who each choose their colour and then battle it out in the arena.

Each battle top has something of a health bar indicating how fast they are still spinning and once that bar is empty, you lose. Another way to lose is by a ring-out, where another player knocks your battle top out of the arena bounds. A regular clash shoots both battle tops back, but it's also possible to charge up a dash by pulling back on the right thumbstick, like a catapult, and your top into the opponent, blasting them away much farther and faster. It's key that the players avoid this and get a jump functionality to attempt to do so, but one wrong move and you're gone.

I wanted to try my hand at modeling actual game assets, so I made both the arena and the battle tops model with modeling software. I wanted to make the game look interesting and spectacular beyond that, however, so I dove into particle systems for good sparks that indicate the charging direction as well as clashes. Clashes are also paired with metallic clash sounds that vary in pitch and speed.

UPDATE: I'm currently extending this game with networking capabilities for online multiplayer.