---
layout: post
title: "Mobile Multiplayer game BRUUT by Dutch5"
date: 2019-09-13
tags: [C#, Unity, Mobile, Game, Multiplayer, Art, Game Design]
featured: yes
images:
 - "/assets/images/bruut-hangar.jpg"
 - "/assets/images/bruut-gameplay.jpg"
preview: "assets/images/bruut-promo-thumb.jpg"
download:
read:
infourl: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=nl.dutch5.bruutgame
keywords: "Mobile, Turn-based, RTS, Multiplayer, C#, Unity, design, art, UI, UX, Game, Android, iOS"
description: "For the duration of one year, I worked for Dutch5 on their mobile game called BRUUT (linked above under More Info)"
---

I worked at Dutch5 for a year, helping in development of BRUUT, a multiplayer mobile game that was a real-time strategy game when I joined the company, but was later changed to a turn-based system.

### Bridge to the Art Department
In the early days, I saw something of a gap in communication between departments and eagerly proposed to help bridge this gap, leading me to become a bridge between development and art, helping to more smoothly import art and adapt systems to the art assets that were delivered. I also worked closely with one of our designers at the time to improve their experience with the map editor tool that had been created for them. I thoroughly enjoyed this close contact, since both of these areas are within my personal interests as well. I intentionally look into what goes into these disciplines as a hobby to also be more capable of communicating and collaborating with them.

### Mobile Development in Unity
BRUUT was developed using the Unity Engine and I quite enjoyed the mind-set at Dutch5 to not be scared or intimidated, but instead excited about the newest packages and features, which led to the exploration and usage of these newest systems.

Since BRUUT is a mobile game, I encountered a lot of the challenges, pitfalls and ins-and-outs of mobile development. Not the least of which is the build systems for both Android and iOS. I encountered and largely handled both full build pipelines myself, setting up all the data correctly, making the actual builds with various systems to decrease filesize to match store requirements, and finally handling the store pages and releases, from early access systems to full releases. Throughout this process I ran into things like the Apple App Store review system and all the trouble that brings, build settings in Unity which included server settings for our servers, and building separated installation packes for Android (OBB files). We later switched to Asset Bundles through the new Addressables package in Unity, which we would then host on our servers to decrease initial app size and allow for an updating system. Added to that we also used the audio plugin FMOD for a while, which caused more trouble than benefit, but we also used Google's Firebase to facilitate our authentication and login systems, which as a plugin also caused its fair share of issues, such as loading asynchronously, having bugs or changing functionality per platform. However, looking into these issues, debugging them and exploring Firebase capabilities, such as the Test Lab for automated testing, did teach me a lot and was very interesting.

### Exploring Mobile and Unity Optimisations
One of the things Dutch5 prided itself for with BRUUT was the high quality art, which I still wholeheartedly support, since it is absolutely one of the better if not best looking games on the app stores. However, being a mobile game, this did mean that optimisations were required, so I dug into mobile optimisation as well, from Unity optimisations like nested canvases and no longer using animators for UI, to GPU profiling and debugging through dedicated tools. A big gain here was in good usage of textures and UV space, which I learned a great deal about from our artists and allowed for smaller, but denser textures overall, directly leading to optimisation as well.

### Game Design, Guiding Interns and Organisation
Another big aspect of Dutch5 was the openness to creative freedom. This, combined with the fact that we had a relatively small team, allowed me to step up into a designer role as well, utilising my minor in Game Design to its fullest extent. This was quite useful at one point when the game required a redesign to make the monetisation model more viable. I did this together with one colleague by clarifying the focus of the game and using existing mobile games as examples to work from, and then matching the various systems and gameplay to align with this new, more feasible model. Within this complete redesign, we also worked on the UX design to design the newly required screens and update the existing ones to new standards from whiteboard to Google Draw. I later created many of these UI elements and screens myself as prefabs in Unity, often with existing assets.

The size of the team and the age of the company also meant that I quickly turned into a relatively senior employee. This led me to a position wherein I got to guide two development interns for half a year, who both enjoyed their time with us, each learned a lot in the process and were able to provide their fair share of help in development.

The position I grew to also allowed me to take part in the planning and organisation aspects within the company, helping in overseeing the git repository and keeping HacknPlan, our SCRUM system of choice, up-to-date.

A neat little bonus that I enjoyed is that due to my bilingual high school education, I also ended up being a general English language proofreader within the company for outgoing messages and in-game texts. It might not seem like much, but since I enjoy language and admittedly do pride myself in my English proficiency (at least in writing), I did enjoy this aspect of my job as well.